h1. rah_comments

"Download":https://github.com/gocom/rah_comments/releases | "Packagist":https://packagist.org/packages/rah/rah_comments | "Issues":https://github.com/gocom/rah_comments/issues | "Support forum":http://forum.textpattern.com/viewtopic.php?id=26126 | "Donate":http://rahforum.biz/donate/rah_comments

Allows you to paginate comments like articles. In other words, it outputs pagination and pg numbers below comments. You can style pagination with various attributes and ofcorse with a CSS-styling magic.

The plugin, rah_comments, works exatly same way like the in build comment listing, txp:comments, but with one addition: pagination, navigation and pagenumbers. Yes, the plugin can be used to paginate comments. You can style pagination with various attributes and ofcorse with a CSS-styling magic. Works only in individual article pages, not in a section, nor an article list pages.

h2. List of features

* Paginated comment listing for individual articles
* Pagenumbers and prev & next links

h2. Requirements

* TXP 4.0.6+

h2. Installation and usage

The basic method stands: paste plugin code to the plugin install textarea and run the automatic setup. Activate the plugin, and you are ready to use the new tag, <txp:rah_comments /> like others.

After the installation, the tag, <txp:rah_comments />, should be used instead of the regular core comments tag, <txp:comments /> – just replace it with <txp:rah_comments /> with your desired attributes, styles and so on.

h2. Attributes

h3. rah_comments

The tag is @<txp:rah_comments />@ and attributes for it follow:

h4. Normal comment related attributes

*form*
Form to output the comments.
Default: @form="comments"@ Example: @"rah_comments"@.

*sort*
How to sort the resulting list. Available values: discussid (comment ID#), parentid (article ID#), name, email, web, ip (IP address), posted, message, rand() (random).
Default: @sort="posted asc"@ Example: @"name desc"@.

*wraptag*
(X)HTML tag (without brackets) to wrap around the comment list.
Default: @wraptag=""@ (unset) @Example: "ul"@.

*break*
(X)HTML tag (without brackets) or string used to separate comments.
Default: @break=""@ (unset) Example: @"li"@.

*class*
(X)HTML class attribute to be applied to wraptag.
Default: @class=""@ Example: @"comment"@

*breakclass*
(X)HTML class attribute to be applied to break (when value supplied is a tag).
Default: @breakclass=""@ (unset) Example: @"comment"@.

*offset*
The number of comments to skip at the first page. Should always be zero (0).
Default: @offset="0"@ Example: @"5"@.

*limit*
The number of comments to display per page.
Default: @limit="10"@ Example: @"5"@.

h4. Pagination related attributes

*prepend*
Show the page and navigation links before comments.
Default: @prepend="1"@ (yes) Example: @""@ (no).

*append*
Show the page and navigation links after comment list.
Default: @append="1"@ (yes) Example: @""@ (no).

*pg_wraptag*
(X)HTML tag (without brackets) to wrap around the pagination links and numbers. Default is unset.
Default: @pg_wraptag="ul"@ Example: @"p"@.

*pg_break*
(X)HTML tag (without brackets) or string used to separate pagination links. Default is unset.
Default: @pg_wraptag="li"@ Example: @""@.

*pg_class*
(X)HTML class attribute to be applied to pg_wraptag element.
Default: @class=""@ Example: @"pg-class"@.

*pg_breakclass*
(X)HTML class attribute to be applied to pg_break element.
Default: class="" Example: "myclass".

*label_next*
Label text applied for next link.
Default: @label_next="&gt;&gt;"@ Example: @"Next comments"@.

*label_prev*
Label text applied for prev link.
Default: @label_prev="&lt;&lt;"@ Example: @"Prev comments"@.

*class_next*
(X)HTML class attribute to be applied to next link.
Default: @class_next=""@ Example: @"myclass"@.

*class_prev*
(X)HTML class attribute to be applied to prev link.
Default: @class_prev=""@ Example: @"myclass"@.

*showalways*
Show page number links always, even if there is only a one page.
Default: @showalways="1"@ (yes) Example: @""@ (no).

h3. rah_recent_comments

Outputs list of recent comments, like the default inbuild recent_comments. The tag is @<txp:rah_recent_comments />@ and attributes for it follow:

*comments_limit*
Set this to be same as the limit-value in the @<txp:rah_comments />@. This tells to the tag how many comments there is in a one page.
Default: @comments_limit="10"@ Example: @"5"@

*comments_sort*
Set this to be same as the sort-value in the <txp:rah_comments />. This tells to the tag in which order the comments are.
Default: @comments_sort="posted asc"@ Example: @"posted desc"@

*wraptag*
(X)HTML tag (without brackets) to wrap around the comment list.
Default: @wraptag=""@ (unset) Example: @"ul"@.

*break*
(X)HTML tag (without brackets) or string used to separate comments.
Default: @break="br"@ Example: @""@.

*class*
(X)HTML class attribute to be applied to wraptag.
Default: @class="recent_comments"@ Example: @"comment"@

*label*
Label for the top of the list.
Default @label=""@ (unset) Example: @"recent_comments"@

*labeltag*
(X)HTML tag (without brackets) to wrap around label.
Default: @labeltag=""@ (unset) Example: @"h3"@.

*limit*
Number of comments to display.
Default: @limit="10"@ Example: @"5"@.

h2. Example

bc. <txp:rah_comments wraptag="div" pg_wraptag="p" />

h2. Changelog

h3. Version 0.4 - 2008/09/14

* Added @<txp:rah_recent_comments />@ tag.

h3. Version 0.3 - 2008/09/03

* Removed attributes: @break_nav@ and @break_pages@.
* Fixed messy url mode’s error: now works fully on messy.
* Added attributes: @pg_break@, @pg_break_class@, @prepend@ and @append@.
* Now works in article lists, same way like @<txp:comments />@.
* Better documentation.

h3. Version 0.2 - 2008/02/17

* Some minor bug fixes.
* Removed some typos from documentation.

h3. Version 0.1 - 2008/02/16

* First release.
